{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12000\viewh11200\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth28960\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth10000\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl40 \clpadb40 \clpadr40 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth18760\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl40 \clpadb40 \clpadr40 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 ZeaMays\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qr
\cf0 R Documentation\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sa380\ql\qnatural

\b\fs48 \cf0 Darwin's Heights of Cross- and Self-fertilized Zea May Pairs\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\fs38 \cf0 Description\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs32 \cf0 Darwin (1876) studied the growth of pairs of zea may (aka corn) seedlings, one produced by cross-fertilization and the other produced by self-fertilization, but otherwise grown under identical conditions. His goal was to demonstrate the greater vigour of the cross-fertilized plants. The data recorded are the final height (inches, to the nearest 1/8th) of the plants in each pair.\
In the 
\i Design of Experiments
\i0 , Fisher (1935) used these data to illustrate a paired t-test (well, a one-sample test on the mean difference, 
\f1\fs26 cross - self
\f0\fs32 ). Later in the book (section 21), he used this data to illustrate an early example of a non-parametric permutation test, treating each paired difference as having (randomly) either a positive or negative sign.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 Usage\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 data(ZeaMays)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs38 \cf0 Format\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs32 \cf0 A data frame with 15 observations on the following 4 variables.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0 pair
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural
\cf0 pair number, a numeric vector\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0 pot
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural
\cf0 pot, a factor with levels 
\f1\fs26 1
\f0\fs32  
\f1\fs26 2
\f0\fs32  
\f1\fs26 3
\f0\fs32  
\f1\fs26 4
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0 cross
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural
\cf0 height of cross fertilized plant, a numeric vector\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0 self
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural
\cf0 height of cross fertilized plant, a numeric vector\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0 diff
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0 cross - self
\f0\fs32  for each pair\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 Details\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs32 \cf0 In addition to the standard paired t-test, several types of non-parametric tests can be contemplated:\
(a) Permutation test, where the values of, say 
\f1\fs26 self
\f0\fs32  are permuted and 
\f1\fs26 diff=cross - self
\f0\fs32  is calculated for each permutation. There are 15! permutations, but a reasonably large number of random permutations would suffice. But this doesn't take the paired samples into account.\
(b) Permutation test based on assigning each 
\f1\fs26 abs(diff)
\f0\fs32  a + or - sign, and calculating the mean(diff). There are 
\i 2^\{15\}
\i0  such possible values. This is essentially what Fisher proposed. The p-value for the test is the proportion of absolute mean differences under such randomization which exceed the observed mean difference.\
(c) Wilcoxon signed rank test: tests the hypothesis that the median signed rank of the 
\f1\fs26 diff
\f0\fs32  is zero, or that the distribution of 
\f1\fs26 diff
\f0\fs32  is symmetric about 0, vs. a location shifted alternative.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 Source\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs32 \cf0 Darwin, C. (1876). 
\i The Effect of Cross- and Self-fertilization in the Vegetable Kingdom
\i0 , 2nd Ed. London: John Murray.\
Andrews, D. and Herzberg, A. (1985) 
\i Data: a collection of problems from many fields for the student and research worker
\i0 . New York: Springer. Data retrieved from: 
\f1\fs26 https://www.stat.cmu.edu/StatDat/
\f0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 References\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs32 \cf0 Fisher, R. A. (1935). 
\i The Design of Experiments
\i0 . London: Oliver & Boyd.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 See Also\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 wilcox.test
\f0\fs32 \

\f1\fs26 independence_test
\f0\fs32  in the 
\f1\fs26 coin
\f0\fs32  package, a general framework for conditional inference procedures (permutation tests)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa360\ql\qnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 Examples\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 data(ZeaMays)\
\
##################################\
## Some preliminary exploration ##\
##################################\
boxplot(ZeaMays[,c("cross", "self")], ylab="Height (in)", xlab="Fertilization")\
\
# examine large individual diff/ces\
largediff <- subset(ZeaMays, abs(diff) > 2*sd(abs(diff)))\
with(largediff, segments(1, cross, 2, self, col="red"))\
\
# plot cross vs. self.  NB: unusual trend and some unusual points\
with(ZeaMays, plot(self, cross, pch=16, cex=1.5))\
abline(lm(cross ~ self, data=ZeaMays), col="red", lwd=2)\
\
# pot effects ?\
 anova(lm(diff ~ pot, data=ZeaMays))\
\
##############################\
## Tests of mean difference ##\
##############################\
# Wilcoxon signed rank test\
# signed ranks:\
with(ZeaMays, sign(diff) * rank(abs(diff)))\
wilcox.test(ZeaMays$cross, ZeaMays$self, conf.int=TRUE, exact=FALSE)\
\
# t-tests\
with(ZeaMays, t.test(cross, self))\
with(ZeaMays, t.test(diff))\
\
mean(ZeaMays$diff)\
# complete permutation distribution of diff, for all 2^15 ways of assigning\
# one value to cross and the other to self (thx: Bert Gunter)\
N <- nrow(ZeaMays)\
allmeans <- as.matrix(expand.grid(as.data.frame(\
                         matrix(rep(c(-1,1),N), nr =2))))  %*% abs(ZeaMays$diff) / N\
\
# upper-tail p-value\
sum(allmeans > mean(ZeaMays$diff)) / 2^N\
# two-tailed p-value\
sum(abs(allmeans) > mean(ZeaMays$diff)) / 2^N\
\
hist(allmeans, breaks=64, xlab="Mean difference, cross-self",\
	main="Histogram of all mean differences")\
abline(v=c(1, -1)*mean(ZeaMays$diff), col="red", lwd=2, lty=1:2)\
\
plot(density(allmeans), xlab="Mean difference, cross-self",\
	main="Density plot of all mean differences")\
abline(v=c(1, -1)*mean(ZeaMays$diff), col="red", lwd=2, lty=1:2)\
\
}